hi I'm Ricky Natale I've been playing
around with HDR ever since I bought my
nikon d50 100 back last summer one of
the things i've been playing around with
is the best way to actually take the
exposures for HDR you normally want to
take a series of bracketed exposures
usually three sometimes more and I've
been struggling with the best way to set
that up for the D 50-100 the define
50-100 will take three bracketed
exposures you control how much exposure
variation is there is between each one
normally what I like to do is take three
exposures one that's two stops
underexposed one that's normally exposed
and one that's two stops overexposed so
the D 50-100 you can set that up fairly
easily you just turn on auto bracketing
and you say to make a to stop or to
exposure or to exposure value difference
between the exposures but what I've been
struggling with is helped us actually
then take those pictures at first I had
thought that it would just you know if
you set that up you hit the button that
would take three exposures and stop it
doesn't work that way
normally what will happen is it'll take
one exposure at one of one of the three
exposures then wait for you to press the
shutter release again it takes the
second and then the third that's a
little inconvenient the other problem
I've had with that is that sometimes
I'll forget that I put the camera in
auto bracketing mode and then I'll be
taking normal normal shots and I'll be
confused because I'm getting very
inconsistent exposures until I realized
that every third exposure is normal
every third exposure is overexposed and
every third exposure is underexposed
so I've tried with various modes are
trying to various modes to try to get it
to just take three exposures we take the
bracketing sequence and
ha I've tried various things trying to
shoot set the release mode into can take
into continuous using the multiple
exposure settings nothing seemed to work
or at least work reliably but recently I
was asking about this on a forum that's
attached to Trey Ratcliff HDR tutorial
and somebody made a comment about well
you need to set the the dial to delayed
exposures which didn't make sense for
the d50 100 because there is no dial
setting for for delayed exposure but I
decided to look a little bit more and I
think I figured out how to do it first
let me demonstrate and the way the way
the camera works or has been working
normally for auto bracketing okay so now
what I've done is I've got the I'm
trying to display the 5100 I mean live
view which I don't really need to be
here I was just using the using this to
set up the video let me take it out a
lot of you here's the here's the regular
display and if I hit the information
button again it puts me into the mode
where I can change settings now first of
all you'll notice that I've got the
bracketing set for auto exposure to
stops between exposures let me show you
how I've set that up I've got I've got
the function button if I can find it
without looking set up to be bracketing
and then I can use the I can use the
thumb wheel to switch how many stops so
and it's very nice if I if I turn the
thumb wheel one direction it'll just
turn it on or turn it off rather and
then toggle back to 2 which is what I
normally use you can select other
bracketing different or bracketing
ranges I guess
okay so getting back to this hit the the
information button again and I'm going
to scroll up and you'll see that I've
got the release mode set to single shot
so now let me take a series of exposures
and I'll show you how this camera
normally works so I'm gonna hit the
shuttle shutter button once takes one
exposure I'd hit it again it takes
another exposure and I hit it again and
it takes the third exposure and each one
of those would be bracketed okay so you
have to remember to take the multiple
exposures you also have to remember to
take the camera out of auto bracket mode
when you go to taking regular single
exposures so now I'm going to show how I
set it up using the combination of
delayed shutter release which seems to
do the trick so here's what I found
today based on the comment that was made
on entrees forums so I'm gonna now I'm
gonna change the release mode and I'm
going to change it to 10-second delay
so now when I take the exposure I'm
giving the 10-second delay
so I get a long 10 second pause and then
short pauses between each exposure so in
this mode you'll notice that it just
takes three exposures you have to wait
10 seconds for the first one you have to
wait a second or so between the second
first in the second and the second and
the third which is nice now I would
prefer it if I can actually do this
using the remote shutter release the
camera does have a mode for either a
immediate remote shutter release or a
two-second delay release unfortunately
neither one of those seems to do this
job but in year of those modes it seems
to just take one exposure in the bracket
for each activation of the remote
shutter release but I think this this
technique of using the the 10 second
delay with the with with the regular
shutter release button I think that's
probably going to be the way that I'm
going to take most of my HDR exposures
from now on I hope this helps some other
5100 users by